.\" Manpage for a small lisp interpreter
.\" Contact howe.r.j.89@gmail.com to correct errors or typos.
.TH lisp 1 "VERSION" "lisp man page"
.SH NAME
lisp \- A small lisp interpreter.
.SH SYNOPSIS
lisp (-[hcpvVEH])* (-[i\\-] file)* (-e string)* (-o file)* file* -
.SH DESCRIPTION
A small and extensible lisp interpreter, written in C, implemented as a library
with a thin wrapper.
.SH OPTIONS

.TP
.B -h
Print out the usage string and exit successfully.

.TP
.B -c
Turn on colorization of printed out S-Expressions, it assumes your terminal can
handle ANSI color codes. If it cannot do not select this option. It does no
checking for whether it is writing to terminal or not with isatty(3).

.TP
.B -p
This will turn the prompt on, by default no prompt is given when typing so as
to allow output to be piped to other programs following the "No news is good
news" Unix maxim.

.TP
.B -v
Increase the verbosity level of the lisp interpreter, by default the
interpreter tries to be as silent as possible. These messages will be
logged to stderr.

.TP
.B -V
Print out the version number and quit

.TP
.B -E
This will turn on the line editor when reading from stdin.

.TP
.B -H
If an error is encountered the interpreter will be halted rather than trying to
recover.

.TP
.B -i file
This option allows the user to supply a file name that would otherwise look
like an argument to the lisp interpreter, for example if the file name began
with a "-" character.

.TP
.B -- file
Same as "-i".

.TP
.B -e string
Evaluate a string as input, this disables reading from stdin(3).

.TP
.B -o file
Open "file" and redirect output to it.

.TP
.B -L
Use the default locale instead of the "C" locale, using setlocal(3).

.TP
.B file
An argument that is not preceded by a valid option that takes an argument is 
treated as a file to be read from. Reading from a single file disables reading
from stdin(3).

.TP
.B -
This forces reading from stdin(3). By default the interpreter will read from
stdin(3) but this behavior is disabled if an argument has been evaluated with
"-e" or a file has been read in.

If no file is given the interpreter reads input from stdin(3), if one is given
then the interpreter will exit after having read all input files or evaluated
all strings.

Arguments are read in order and executed as soon as they are encountered.

.SH SEE ALSO
liblisp(3)
.SH BUGS

There are bound to be many in the interpreter library, comments on known ones
are in the source code. Search for "@bug" in the source code or "@todo" for missing
and planned functionality.

.SH AUTHOR
Richard James Howe (howe.r.j.89@gmail.com)
